So we had a look at the if statement, another control structure based on the condition or the values
of certain variables is the switch statement. I'll create a new variable which I call luckyNumber and I
set this equal to 8.
Now I create a switch statement by typing switch and then in parentheses, the value or the variable on
which I want to switch,
so luckyNumber here,
then I also have curly braces and inside of these curly braces, I now define several cases I want to
handle.
So generally with the switch statement, I look at a variable and then I decide what to do upon setting
values this variable might have.
So for example, I might have the case that a variable is one
and I do this like this, case
and then the value I want to handle and then a colon, then I enter a new line and I don't need curly braces
here and I write for example, console log is 1
and then I have to type break,
I'll come back to this keyword soon.
I also want to handle the case that it is 8 for example and then I will log is 8,
also break here and then I have a special case here,
the default case which I specify with the default keyword. This code here is executed whenever this value
in this case
here is something else than 1 or 8,
so I'll print default then and also break here.
What do you think we'll see if I hit run? Well we get this 8 because we're switching this number and we're
handling the case that it is 8.
What do you think
we'll see if I change this to 7? We get default because we're only handling the cases that it's
1 or 8, in all other cases, we will run this default code here.
So with the switch statement, we have an easy way to execute conditional code depending on the value of
something and this could also be written as an if statement where we check if luckyNumber equals
1 and then we would print this and then we would have
else if luckyNumber equals 8 and then we would execute this code and then we would have else and
then we would print default here and this would do the same as this statement
and in this case, this might even look shorter but imagine us handling multiple cases. This here is
much more structured,
whereas here we have to write all these else if statements which quickly becomes very inconvenient
and
that is why we have this switch statement to make such cases easier.